Updates to caching article for app.lifecycle APIs (#12565)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/tabs/how-to/app-caching.md

---
title: Enable App Suspension for Tab App
author: surbhigupta
description: Learn how to enable app suspension for tab app in Teams, improve app's subsequent launch time and about limitations, troubleshooting, and code sample.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.date: 05/13/2025
---

# App suspension for your tab app

> When a user navigates away from an app, the app can either be suspended or terminated. Suspension means that the app is sitting in the background and isn't visible to the user. Termination means that the app is completely closed and removed from memory. Suspending an app improves subsequent launch time of the apps within Teams, or other Microsoft 365 products, by allowing you to keep some resources and assets in memory that you can use when you rehydrate your app.

Reviewer: Verified, the text currently reads as: Suspension means the app is in the background and isn't visible to the user. If app is in dormant state when suspended, can this be rephrased as: "the app is in dormant state in the background", for more clarity?

When you opt into app suspension, the iframe or webview that is used to host the embedded app is reused as users navigate to different instances of the app within a window. The iframe or webview used to host the app is hidden when the users leave the app and shown when the users return to the app.

> [!NOTE]
> If app suspension isn't enabled, the iframe or webview is recreated every time the user launches the app.

There are multiple reasons for an app to not get suspended or for an app to get removed from the cache. Some general reasons across Microsoft 365 apps are:

* The total memory load is high.
* The total number of suspended apps exceed the maximum cache size. In this cirumcstance the oldest suspended app is removed.
* The app is terminated if the machine's available memory is low.
* The app is suspended for a long time without getting resumed.

Within the Teams app some of the reasons are (numbers here are subject to change):

* If the system memory load is high, the app is removed from the cache.

> * If the number of suspended apps exceeds the maximum cache size, the oldest suspended app is removed from the cache.

Author: Addressed in upcoming commit.

> * The app isn't suspended if Teams doesn't receive the `readyToUnload` signal from the app within 30 seconds after sending the `beforeUnload` notification.

Author: Addressed in upcoming commit.

* App suspension is disabled if the system memory is less than 4 GB or if the available memory is less than 1 GB on Windows or 512 MB on Mac.
* Side panel is the only supported frameContext for app suspension in meetings.
* App suspesnion isn't supported for meetings where the invited user count is more than 20.

> * If an app fails to load, the app isn't suspended.

Reviewer 2: If an app fails to load, the app is terminated

Author: Thanks, updated in upcoming commit.

        }
        ```

        > [!
        ]
        > * The `contentUrl` can't contain context-specific parameters, such as team site URL or thread ID, as Teams loads apps with no prior context during launch.
        > * The `contentUrl` must be generic enough to load in the background without any user interaction.

> 

Reviewer 3: > [!NOTE]
>
> * The `contentUrl` can't contain context-specific parameters, such as team site URL or thread ID, as Teams loads apps with no prior context during launch.
> * The `contentUrl` must be generic enough to load in the background without any user interaction.

Author: Not positive what was being looked for here. I think it was that the note formatting wasn't correct. If so, it should be fixed in the upcoming commit. If there was a separate issue, please let me know.

Reviewer: Verified correction in formatting.

* Try to reduce your memory footprint when the `app.lifecycle.onBeforeSuspendOrTerminateHandler` handler is called, and the app is about to be suspended. For example, release references, remove eventListeners, pause sync calls, or halt network requests.

* Precaching increases the traffic to your app in addition to user-initiated requests. Ensure that the endpoint you provide as the `contentUrl` can handle background requests multiple times for each user in a day. Ensure that you make telemetry adjustments needed to accommodate the background loading of the app.

* Ensure that your app uses less than or equal to 130 MB of memory in the precached state.

## General limitations

The following are general limitations for app suspension:

* There's no guarantee that an app will be suspended. There are reasons that can lead to app termination even though an app registered the required handlers.  

* An app is suspended only when the user navigates away from the app. If an app has multiple static tabs, when the user switches between tabs, the tab won’t be suspended. The handler, `app.lifecycle.onBeforeSuspendOrTerminate`, will still be called.

> * The suspended app can be used within the same window. The app that is suspended in a pop out window can't be reused in the Main window.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The suspended app can be used within the same window. The app that's suspended in a pop-out window can't be reused in the Main window.
```

Author: Updated "that is" to "that's" in next commit. Didn't change "pop out" to "pop-up" as I believe these are not necessarily the same.

* When an app is suspended, all the registered handlers are deleted. When the app is resumed all the handlers, such as `themeChange` or `focusEnter`, need to be reregistered. No notifications are sent to the app when suspended. If your app requires notifications even when suspended, suspension might not be the right solution.

* Only Single-page apps that use client-side routing for page navigation can benefit from app suspension and resume. It's recommended that the same domain be used across all contexts of your app launch.

* An app is expected to sleep when suspended. No SDK requests are allowed when the app is suspended.

* The host app invokes the `resume` handler only after the `suspendOrTerminate` sequence of the app is completed. For example, if a user launches tab A of your app and then launches tab B of the same app, tab B doesn't get the `resume` signal until the `suspendOrTerminate` handler on tab A is done executing.

* Apps are cached on a per-window basis. App caching happens on a per app (not on a per tab) basis within the same window.

> * The table in the introductory section, [App suspension for your tab app](#app-suspension-for-your-tab-app), provides information about what `frameContext` Teams supports for caching. For non-Teams hubs, only `FrameContext.Content` is cached. That means, `FrameContext.Task`, which is inside `Dialog` isn't supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The table in the introductory section, [App suspension for your tab app](#app-suspension-for-your-tab-app), provides information about what `frameContext` Teams supports for caching. For non-Teams hubs, only `FrameContext.Content` is cached, which means, `FrameContext.Task` that's inside `Dialog` isn't supported.
```

* An app is suspended only when the user navigates away from the app. If an app has multiple static tabs, when the user switches between tabs, the tab won’t be suspended. The hanlder, `app.lifecycle.onBeforeSuspendOrTerminate`, will still be called.

* The suspended app can be used within the same window. The app that is suspended in a pop out window cannot be reused in the Main window.

* When an app is suspended, all the registered handlers are deleted. When the app is resumed all the handlers, such as `themeChange` or `focusEnter`, need to be reregistered. No notifications are sent to the app when suspended. If your app requires notifications even when suspended, suspension might not be the right solution.

* Only Single-page apps that use client-side routing for page navigation can benefit from app suspension and resume. It's recommended that the same domain be used across all contexts of your app launch.

* An app is expected to sleep when suspended. No SDK requests are allowed when the app is suspended.

## Limitations within Teams

The following are the limitations for app suspension within the Teams app:

> * The Teams client invokes the `resume` handler only after the `suspendOrTerminate` sequence of the app is completed. For example, if a user launches tab A of your app and then launches tab B of the same app, tab B won't get the `resume` signal until the `suspendOrTerminate` handler on tab A is done executing.

Reviewer 2: This is general limitation

Author: Thanks, updated in upcoming commit.

> * Apps are cached on a per-window basis. App caching happens on a per app (not on a per tab) basis within the same window.

Author: Thanks, updated in an upcoming commit

> * App suspension isn't supported for the meeting stage or dialog (referred as task module in TeamsJS v1.x) contexts, because these can be opened on top of the tab and the same iframe or webview can't be used to render the content in the tab and the dialog.

Reviewer 2: The table in the beginning of the doc shows what frameContext Teams support for caching. 
For non-Teams hubs, only `FrameContext.Content` will be cached. That means, `FrameContext.Task` that is inside Dialog in not supported.

Author: @lakhveerk Added the below entry with the following text, could you let me know if it looks ok?

The table in the introductory section, [App suspension for your tab app](#app-suspension-for-your-tab-app), provides information about what `frameContext` Teams supports for caching. For non-Teams hubs, only `FrameContext.Content` is cached. That means, `FrameContext.Task`, which is inside `Dialog` is not supported.

> * Register only the `beforeSuspendOrTerminate` handler if your app doesn't require app suspension but needs time to safely save state (as leaving the app can cause the app content to be abruptly removed from the Document Object Model (DOM)). If the app hasn't registered for the `resume` event, it's removed from the DOM after the `suspendOrTerminate` flow completes.

Reviewer 2: This should be in general

Author: Updated in upcoming commit.
